# Date 17 March 2025
-------------------------
Q. How will you check installed git version?
ans: Using git --version or git -v  


 How will you check installed git version?
ans: Using git --version or git -v  



Q. Which command is used to check the status of local repository?
ans: Using git status

 Which command is used to check the status of local repository?
ans: Using git status

Q. What is use of git init command?
ans: git init command is used to initialize a git new repository.


Q. Suppose,I have added four new files say F1.txt,F2.txt,F3.txt and  
   f4.txt in working directory.If I check the status of local repository then what is status of local repository?
ans: we enter git status it will show all four file are present in untracked files F1.txt F2.txt F3.txt and F4.txt
 are display in red color.

Q. F1.txt file status is untracked,I want to add this file into 
   stagging area,write git command to add into stagging area?
ans: using  " git add F1.txt "  it will add in stagging area
    


Q. I have 2 untracked files,2 modified files and 1 delete files,write a  
   git command to add all these files into stagging area at a time.
ans: using " git add -A or git add ."


Q. Suppose I have 10 files in working area,some are text files,some are 
   log files,some are pdf files,write git command for below requirement
   1. Add only text files into stagging area. 
     ans:git add *.txt

   2. Add only log files into stagging area.
      and: git add *.log

   3. Add only pdf files into stagging area.
      ans: git add *.pdf

   4. Add only text and log files into stagging area
      ans: git add *.txt *.log

   5. Add only pdf and log files into stagging area.
      ans git add *.pdf *.log

   
Q. Suppose I have A1.txt file,status of that file is untracked,now I am 
   adding A1.txt into stagging area so I have written below command,now guess what will happen if below command is executed? I mean which file get added into stagging area.
   command: git add a1.txt
  and git add a1.txt  added into staging area

   
Q. State the following statement are valid or invalid
1. git commands are case insensitive
 ans: all git command are case sensitive.

2. git is maintained by windows
 and: git is maintainde by linux operating system .

3. github is maintained by Linux
 and: github is maintained by microsoft .

4. we can execute git commands on normal directory
 ans:we cannot execute Git commands in a normal directory unless it is a Git repository.
 

5. gitbash is version control tool
 ans: git is version control tool and gitbash is command line interface for windows user to use git

6. git restore --stagged command removes a file from commit area
   and put into working area.
 ans:git restore --stagged command are used to unstage files put into working area


7. We can add Untracked files directly into commit area?
ans : we cannot add untracked files directly into commit area.
 

8. We can add modified files directly into stagging area.
 ans: we can add modified files into stagging area
       git add -u
       git add --a
       git add -A

9. If local repository file is deleted from our system then no 
   need to add it into commit area.
   ans:if you delete tracked file we need to add into stagging area and commit area
        if you delete untracked file no need to add stagging area and commit area

10. git bash display committed file names in green color
  ans:if we add commit area files  not showing color and files 

11. git bash display deleted file names in red color
  ans: it will display in red color when we run git status

12. When we add a file into stagging area then index is created or 
    index is updated.
 ans: When you add a file to the staging area, the Git index is updated, not created.

13. Every files has unique index.
 ans: every files dont have unique index 
      every files entry into git index : when we adding staging area
-----------------------------------------------------------------------




